feat: Editorial review for Shared Storage API docs (#30427)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/shared_storage_api/index.md

---
title: Shared Storage API
slug: Web/API/Shared_Storage_API
page-type: web-api-overview
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.SharedStorage
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}{{DefaultAPISidebar("Shared Storage API")}}

> The **Shared Storage API** is a client-side storage mechanism that enables unpartitioned, cross-site data access in a privacy-preserving manner for specific use cases that require it.

Author: I think a change was needed here, but the last sentence case of as a bit stating the obvious. I made an edit, and ended up with:

> The **Shared Storage API** is a client-side storage mechanism that enables unpartitioned, cross-site data access while preserving privacy (i.e. without relying on tracking cookies).

## Concepts and usage

One major source of [privacy](/en-US/docs/Web/Privacy) and [security](/en-US/docs/Web/Security) problems on the web is third-party cookies set on content embedded in {{htmlelement("iframe")}} elements, which can be used to share information and track users across sites.

To prevent cross-site tracking, browsers are working towards partitioning all forms of storage — this includes [Cookies](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies), [Web Storage](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Storage_API), [IndexedDB](/en-US/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API), [Cache API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Cache), etc. However, a major barrier to achieving this is several legitimate use cases that rely on sharing information across sites. For example, advertisers wish to measure the reach of their ads across sites and generate reports, and site owners wish to customize user experiences based on what group they are in, or what content they've already seen on other properties.

> The Shared Storage API provides a flexible solution to fulfill such use cases — aiming to provide the required data storage, processing, and sharing — but without sharing user data with parties that shouldn't have access to it.

Author: I ended up with

> The Shared Storage API provides a flexible solution for such use cases. It aims to provide the required data storage, processing, and sharing capabilities without the ability to track and profile users.

Like other storage APIs, you can write to shared storage at any time. However, you can only read shared storage data from inside a {{domxref("SharedStorageWorklet", "worklet", "", "nocode")}}. Worklets provide a secure environment inside which you can process shared storage data and return useful results, but you can't directly share the data with the associated browsing context.

To extract useful results from a shared storage worklet, you need to use an **output gate**. Output gates are mechanisms that fulfill a specific type of use case, for example selecting a URL from a provided list to display to the user based on shared storage data. Any results to be displayed to the user will be shown securely inside a [fenced frame](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fenced_Frame_API) where they can't be accessed from the embedding page.

> ### Use cases

Author: Yup, sounds like a good idea. I've done so.

- In the main browsing context that your site or app is running in, on {{domxref("WindowSharedStorage")}}, which is available via `window.sharedStorage`.
- In the context of your shared storage worklet, on {{domxref("WorkletSharedStorage")}}, which is available via `this.sharedStorage`.

In our A/B testing example, we define a function in our app context that generates a random number — 0 or 1 — to represent an experiment group to assign the current user to, and then run the {{domxref("SharedStorage.set", "window.sharedStorage.set()")}} function to assign the user to a group and save the result in shared storage:

```js
// Randomly assigns a user to a group 0 or 1
function getExperimentGroup() {
  return Math.round(Math.random());
}

async function injectContent() {
  // Assign user to a random group (0 or 1) and store it in shared storage
  window.sharedStorage.set("ab-testing-group", getExperimentGroup(), {
    ignoreIfPresent: true,
  });
}
```

> _Note:_ The `ignoreIfPresent: true` option causes the `set()` function to abort if the shared storage already contains a data item with the specified key.

### Reading and processing data from shared storage

> As mentioned above, to extract useful results from a shared storage worklet you need to use an **output gate**. In this example, we'll use the URL Selection output gate to read the user's experiment group and then load a URL in a fenced frame based on their group.

Author: Great! I've used this text, and linked the placeholder to the URL Selection output gate section.

To use the output gate, you need to:

- Define an operation in a worklet module script to handle choosing the URL, and register it.
- Add the module to your shared storage worklet.
- Choose the URL using the worklet operation and load it in a fenced frame.

Below we'll look at these steps one by one.

#### Define an operation in a worklet

> The URL will be chosen based on the experiment group stored in shared storage. To retrieve this value and choose a URL based on it, we need to define an operation in a {{domxref("SharedStorageWorklet")}} context — it must be inside a worklet to keep the raw data hidden from other contexts and therefore preserve privacy.

Reviewer: This is better, thanks! My bad for introducing an extra space there, thanks for catching it

- The `run()` method must return a number, which will equate to the number of the URL chosen.

> **Note:** Each output gate has a corresponding interface that defines the required structure of its class and `run()` method. For URL Selection, see {{domxref("SharedStorageSelectURLOperation")}}.

Once the operation is defined, it needs to be registered using {{domxref("SharedStorageWorkletGlobalScope.register()")}}.

```js
// ab-testing-worklet.js
class SelectURLOperation {
  async run(urls, data) {
    // Read the user's experiment group from shared storage
    const experimentGroup = await this.sharedStorage.get("ab-testing-group");

    // Return the group number
    return experimentGroup;
  }
}

register("ab-testing", SelectURLOperation);
```

Note how the value set in our main app context is retrieved using {{domxref("WorkletSharedStorage.get()")}}. To reiterate, to preserve privacy and mitigate data leakage you can only read values back out of shared storage inside a worklet.

> **Note:** It is possible to define and register multiple operations in the same shared storage worklet module script with different names; see {{domxref("SharedStorageOperation")}} for an example.

> #### Add the worklet

Author: Went with "#### Add the module to the shared storage worklet"

  // Assign user to a random group (0 or 1) and store it in shared storage
  window.sharedStorage.set("ab-testing-group", getExperimentGroup(), {
    ignoreIfPresent: true,
  });
}
```

#### Choose a URL and load it in a fenced frame

To run the operation defined in the worklet, we call {{domxref("WindowSharedStorage.selectURL()")}} — this acts as a proxy to our worklet operation, accessing it securely and returning the result without leaking any data. `selectURL()` is the correct method to call our user-defined worklet operation because it was defined with the appropriate class structure for a URL Selection operation, as discussed above.

`selectURL()` expects an array of objects containing URLs to choose from, an optional options object, and for the underlying operation to return an integer that it can use to choose a URL.

```js
// Run the URL selection operation
const fencedFrameConfig = await window.sharedStorage.selectURL(
  "ab-testing",
  [
    { url: `https://your-server.example/content/default-content.html` },
    { url: `https://your-server.example/content/experiment-content-a.html` },
  ],
  {
    resolveToConfig: true,
  },
);
```

> Because the options object contains `resolveToConfig: true`, the returned {{jsxref("Promise")}} will resolve with a {{domxref("FencedFrameConfig")}} object, which can be set as the value of the {{domxref("HTMLFencedFrameElement.config")}} property, resulting in the chosen URL being displayed in the associated {{htmlelement("fencedframe")}} element:

Author: Ended up going with

> Because the options object contains `resolveToConfig: true`, the returned {{jsxref("Promise")}} will resolve with a {{domxref("FencedFrameConfig")}} object. This object can be set as the value of the {{domxref("HTMLFencedFrameElement.config")}} property, resulting in the chosen URL having its content displayed in the corresponding {{htmlelement("fencedframe")}} element:

> Because the options object contains `resolveToConfig: true`, the returned {{jsxref("Promise")}} will resolve with a {{domxref("FencedFrameConfig")}} object, which can be set as the value of the {{domxref("HTMLFencedFrameElement.config")}} property, resulting in the chosen URL being displayed in the associated {{htmlelement("fencedframe")}} element:

Reviewer: Not a blocker, but perhaps it can be simplified like so:

> This object can be set as the value of the {{domxref("HTMLFencedFrameElement.config")}} property, resulting in the content of the chosen URL being displayed in the corresponding {{htmlelement("fencedframe")}} element:

> Because the options object contains `resolveToConfig: true`, the returned {{jsxref("Promise")}} will resolve with a {{domxref("FencedFrameConfig")}} object, which can be set as the value of the {{domxref("HTMLFencedFrameElement.config")}} property, resulting in the chosen URL being displayed in the associated {{htmlelement("fencedframe")}} element:

Author: Looks good; added. Thanks!

- {{domxref("SharedStorageWorkletGlobalScope")}}
  - : Represents the global scope of a {{domxref("SharedStorageWorklet")}} module. Contains functionality to {{domxref("SharedStorageWorkletGlobalScope.register", "register", "", "nocode")}} a defined operation, and {{domxref("SharedStorageWorkletGlobalScope.sharedStorage", "access the shared storage", "", "nocode")}}.

### Output gate operation signature definitions

- {{domxref("SharedStorageOperation")}}
  - : Represents the base class for all different output gate operation types.
- {{domxref("SharedStorageRunOperation")}}
  - : Represents a Run output gate operation.
- {{domxref("SharedStorageSelectURLOperation")}}
  - : Represents a URL Selection output gate operation.

### Extensions to other interfaces

- {{domxref("Window.sharedStorage")}}
  - : Returns the {{domxref("WindowSharedStorage")}} object for the current origin.

## Enrollment and local testing

> To use the Shared Storage API in your sites, you must specify it in the [privacy sandbox enrollment process](/en-US/docs/Web/Privacy/Privacy_sandbox/Enrollment). If you don't do this, none of the methods of the Shared Storage API will run successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Shared Storage API in your sites, you must specify it in the [privacy sandbox enrollment process](/en-US/docs/Web/Privacy/Privacy_sandbox/Enrollment). If you don't, the Shared Storage API methods won't run successfully.
```

> You can still test your Shared Storage API code locally without enrollment. To allow local testing, enable the following Chrome developer flag:
> 
> `chrome://flags/#privacy-sandbox-enrollment-overrides`

Reviewer: We usually include the flag info in BCD table. Any way to avoid including this in the main text?

```suggestion
You can test your Shared Storage API code locally without enrollment. To allow local testing, enable the following Chrome developer flag:

`chrome://flags/#privacy-sandbox-enrollment-overrides`
```

## Examples

> For extensive demos, see [Shared Storage API demo site](https://shared-storage-demo.web.app/) (which also includes some Private Aggregation API examples).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For extensive demos, see the [Shared Storage API demo site](https://shared-storage-demo.web.app/), which also includes some Private Aggregation API examples.
```
